Add ops quick start, update nav (#29220)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/get-started/operations-qs.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Operations quick start
description: Learn how to store and retrieve your first secret.
---

# Operations quick start

This quick start will explore how to set up Vault to authenticate
entities, store and retrieve your first secret value.

> For in-depth Vault learning experience, see the [Vault foundations tutorials](/vault/tutorials/get-started).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete Vault learning experience, refer to the [Vault foundations tutorials](/vault/tutorials/get-started).
```

## Prerequisites

- A local installation of the [Vault binary](/vault/install).

> ## Start Vault

Author: Resolved in upcoming commit

1. (Optional) To authenticate workloads with Vault, you must create a role.

   ```shell-session
   $ vault write auth/approle/role/my-app-role \
       secret_id_ttl=10m \
       token_ttl=20m \
       token_max_ttl=30m
   ```

   The role `my-app-role` is created. The role has a secret ID TTL of 10 minutes, a
   token TTL of 20 minutes, and a token max TTL of 30 minutes.

## Enable secrets engines

Vault supports multiple [secrets engines](/vault/docs/secrets). These
plugins support various use cases like storing static secrets, dynamic secrets,
and managing PKI certificates.

Enable the `kv` secrets engine. This engine stores arbitrary secrets.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -version=2 kv
```

The `kv` secrets engine is enabled.

## Store a secret

Vault securely stores secrets static for a configured `kv` secrets engine.

Write a secret to the `kv` secrets engine.

```shell-session
$ vault kv put kv/creds username=opsuser password=p@ssw0rd
```

The `kv put` command writes the secret to the `kv` secrets engine. In this example, two
secrets are written: The `username` key with a value of `opsuser` and the key
`password` with a value of `p@ssw0rd`.

## Protect secrets

> In the previous step, you wrote a password to the `kv` secrets engine using the
> root token. Using the root token, and root policy, is not recommended for production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous step, you wrote a password to the `kv` secrets engine using the
root token. The use of the root token, and root policy, is not recommended for production environments.
```

Vault policies allow you to control access to secrets, and which operations are allowed.

1. Write a policy that permits access to the `kv` secrets engine.

   ```shell-session
   $ vault policy write kv-access-policy - << EOF

>    path "kv/creds" {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   path "shared/data/kv/creds/*" {
```

Not 100% about this, but the example as written doesn't match the syntax we use for the `kv` plugin setup guide.

      capabilities = ["read", "create", "update", "delete"]
   }
   EOF
   ```

   This policy supports the `read`, `create`, `update`, and `delete` operations on
   the path `kv/creds`.

> 1. Attach the policy to the `opsuser` user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use `vault write` to attach the policy to your `userpass` authentication
   plugin policy for the `opsuser` user:
```

   ```shell-session
   $ vault write auth/userpass/users/opsuser \
       policies=kv-access-policy
   ```

>    The `opsuser` user is updated with the `kv-access-policy` policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Authenticate to Vault

> Authenticate to Vault using the `opsuser` user. When prompted, enter the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `vault login` to authenticate to Vault using the `opsuser` user. When prompted, enter the
```

> password `p@ssw0rd`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
password `p@ssw0rd`:
```

```shell-session
$ vault login -method=userpass username=opsuser
```

> You are now authenticated to Vault.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are now authenticated to Vault with the access policy for `opsuser` instead of the root token.
```

## Retrieve a secret

> You authenticated to Vault as the `opsuser` user. Retrieve the secrets from the
> path `kv/creds`. The `opsuser` user has access to the `kv/creds` path from the
> `kv-access-policy`.
> 
> ```shell-session
> $ vault kv get kv/creds
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion

Try retrieving the secrets stored on the `kv/creds` path:

```shell-session
$ vault kv get kv/creds
```

Now try retrieving the secrets stored on the `kv/api-keys` path:

```shell-session
$ vault kv get kv/api-keys
```

The second command fails because the policy for `opsuser` does
not grant access to the `/api-keys` path.
````
